Hello, everyone.
My name is Dan Crosby.
I'm an engineer on the
iOS performance team.
And I'm going to be talking about
graphics and animation performance today.
So when I say graphics
and animation performance,
what I really mean is two things that
we think really help to distinguish a
really good functional app on iOS from
a really great -- an app that makes the
user really glad to be using an app.
And that's responsive animations
and smooth animations.
And by responsiveness,
I mean an animation that
begins immediately when the
user expects it to begin,
when they gesture or tap or rotate
or whatever it is that they do.
And by smooth animations,
I mean animations that
don't drop any frames,
that don't stutter,
that seem to be smooth
all the way through.
And then -- so we're going
to be talking about today an
introduction to animations,
how animations work on iOS.
We're going to be talking about
how to make your animations in
your app responsive and smooth.
And then in particular,
we're going to talk about scrolling,
which is a special type
of animation on iOS,
which is particularly difficult
sometimes to stay smooth.
So we have a lot to talk about.
I'm going to dive right in.
But first, I want to remind you of this
performance bug workflow,
which you may have seen if you
went to the learning instruments
or responsiveness talk earlier.
This is a really important set
of steps that are useful in
any performance bug analysis,
but they're especially important
in graphics and animations bugs.
So whenever you encounter a problem,
a performance problem,
you want to start by measuring the
problem so you have a baseline so
you know when you fix the problem.
Then you want to profile -- and I'm
going to show you how to do that.
So you want to profile using the tools,
form a hypothesis from the
data you get from that profile,
maybe choose another profiling method
to further hone that hypothesis,
iterate on that a few times.
Do that before you make a change.
Then make a change,
and you can start with a simple,
you know, not shippable code change
just to test your fix.
And then, most importantly of all,
measure the problem again so that you
know that you've actually fixed it.
And this is especially important
for graphics and animations because
some of the strategies I'm going to
be talking about will help in some
situations and will actually make your
problem worse in other situations.
So you don't want to blindly
do any of the advice that I'm
going to be giving you here.
Okay.
So let's start with an
introduction to animations.
How do animations work on iOS?
Well, let's start with a very brief
introduction to how views and
layers and animations work.
So if you've worked with UIKit at all,
of course you've worked with UI views,
either creating them with interface
builder and putting them in a nib file
or creating them programmatically.
But in fact, every UI view on iOS is
backed by a CA layer.
And it's the same thing with UI views.
You can create a UI view on iOS,
and it's the CA layer that actually
does most of the heavy lifting.
That's what core animation acts on to
display something to the screen or to
perform an animation on or whatever.
So when you're doing view
layout in your application,
you're actually doing layer layout.
And when you draw rect to
draw the contents of a view,
you're actually drawing into
the CA layer's backing store.
And that backing store is what
gets shipped off to the render
server and then sent off to the
GPU to display on the screen.
Now, that part, the layout and draw rect
happens in your application.
But you can actually do
that in your application.
So you can actually do
But layer properties and animations
are actually handled in another
process in the render server,
which lives in a process called
springboard if you're working before
iOS 6 or an application called --
a process called backboard in iOS 6.
That's where the actual animations
and layer properties are handled.
And any changes you make to your
layer tree are committed to the
render server inside a function
called CA transaction commit.
Now, you never call that yourself.
That's called implicitly when you
create an animation and start it going.
Or implicitly when you
create an animation,
or implicitly at the end of the run
loop if you make any changes to your
layer tree outside of an animation,
happens at the end of the run loop.
So when you kick off an animation,
there's three stages
that it goes through.
The first stage is to create the
animation and update the view hierarchy,
and I'll be talking about each of
these in a little bit more detail.
The second is to prepare
and commit the animation,
and finally,
to render each frame and turn.
Now, that first phase,
creating an animation,
happens inside your application,
and it's the part you
usually do explicitly.
So you have some simple
animation like this where I'm
going to create a new view,
start it with a transform
to make it very,
very small,
and then inside an animation block,
I'm going to add it to a super view and
expand it by changing the transform.
That'll get animated up
over a half-second duration.
At the end of this,
a CA transaction will be
implicitly committed for you.
The next phase is
preparing the animation.
That also happens in your application,
but it happens implicitly.
You don't ever actually call
anything to make this happen.
And at the beginning of an animation,
if you were to take a time profile,
you'd actually see something like this.
So all the stages I'm going to
be talking about in more detail,
you can actually see in
your time profiler trace.
And there's four steps to
preparing the animation.
There's layout to set up the views,
display to draw the views,
prepare to do other core animation
work that needs to be done
before the animation can begin,
and commit,
where we actually package up the views
and send them off to the render server.
So in the layout phase,
this is where you actually put the
subviews in the place where they need
to be at the end of the animation.
So this often has
expensive view creation.
The first time you go to a given view,
we may have to create the
subviews underneath it if
they've never been drawn before.
We may have to do some expensive
data lookup to populate the views.
So if you need to set text on some
strings or something like that,
you might look up in a database.
It's often--it's usually
CPU bound in this phase,
but sometimes it can become I/O bound if
you're doing some of that database work,
or maybe you've got a worker thread
going on in the background and
you need to check up with that,
synchronize with that to get your data.
So it's usually CPU bound,
but sometimes I/O bound.
The next phase is display,
and this is where we actually
draw the contents of your views.
So if you've overridden drawRect in any
of the classes that are-- any of the
views that are involved in the animation,
this is where we'll call drawRect.
And implicitly,
lots of other drawRects get
called for string drawing and
other very expensive things.
So this is also usually CPU-bound.
The next step is the prepare phase.
This is where CA does other work to get
ready the contents of the layers that
aren't happening inside a draw rect.
So the most obvious example of
this would be in an image view.
An image view doesn't
even implement draw rect,
so it doesn't draw the
contents of the image,
but it's updating the CA layer's
contents with the bitmap of that image.
So this is where you'll see
Core Animation do work like
decoding the image that's going
to be displayed in an image view.
Now be careful with this one.
If you are decoding images,
sometimes not all the time
will show up in this backtrace
in the time profiler trace.
Sometimes we do image
decoding in parallel,
and so you may see like this
copy image block set ping
happening on multiple threads.
So when you're trying to
time how long this takes,
you need to watch out for that.
Finally, the commit phase is where we
package up all the layers,
encode them for IPC,
and send them off to the render server.
Usually, this doesn't take very long,
and in this case,
it's like five milliseconds.
But if you have a very expensive,
a very complex view hierarchy
with lots and lots of sublayers,
you can see this taking a long time.
And after this part,
now the work has left your application.
It's gone off to the render server,
and it's going to take care of updating
the animation every frame after that.
So this phase is outside
your application.
It's usually GPU bound.
But if you were to look at a
CPU strategy view of a time profile
or trace during an animation,
you'd see something like this.
Those blue parts are not your app,
but they're the render server,
so springboard or backward,
spinning up 60 times a second
to prepare the next frame.
Usually this doesn't take very long,
but if you have a very complex
view hierarchy and you're
running on a single core device,
that work can be interfering
with work that you're trying
to do in your application.
So you do want to watch out for that.
Okay,
so with that very brief introduction
to how views and animations work,
let's talk about making
animations responsive.
So going back to our chart,
the three stages of the animation,
we're worried about the first
two stages in this case:
creating the animation and then
preparing and committing the animation.
Now,
the first part you can profile yourself.
That's something you're doing explicitly.
So the second part is what
I'm going to focus on here.
So some of the things that
delay an animation are,
first of all, layout.
You might have slow layout because
you have a very complex hierarchy.
You are trying to position lots and lots
of subviews in their appropriate places.
You have to do a lot of
expensive calculation.
We do lazy construction of views.
So the first time that you
go to a particular view,
if you're animating a flip
or something like that,
we have to create all those subviews.
And then, of course,
if you have to populate the
views by doing database access
going down to the flash,
something like that,
to populate the views,
that's also very time consuming.
Drawing can also slow your animation.
It's important to note that
we do all the work to prepare
the entire animation up front.
So even if you have a view that doesn't
appear until frame 15 of your animation,
we're going to lay out and
draw that view ahead of time.
So any draw rect that's going to
be used anywhere in your animation,
we have to do it up front,
and that's going to delay the beginning.
So if you've got your own draw rect,
of course,
that can take arbitrarily long.
String drawing is expensive,
especially on a retina display.
We have to render four
times as many pixels,
so string drawing can take a long time.
And image decoding,
depending on the size of the image,
can be very time consuming.
So we're going to talk about a number of
steps to help you improve responsiveness.
We'll talk about doing less
setup and less drawing.
That obviously is always good.
We'll talk about being smart with images
to make those as fast as possible.
We'll talk about a new feature in iOS
6 called Draws Asynchronously that can
help in drawing particularly slow layers.
And finally, speculative preparation.
So doing less setup is stuff
that sounds kind of obvious,
but if you take a time profiler trace
and you see that most of your time
is in the layout if needed part,
this is the first place you should look.
Try to avoid any CPU heavy or blocking
operations during your layout phase.
So if you're doing really
expensive database work,
could you have that -- the part
of the database that you need,
could you have the actual entries that
you need cached and ready up front?
Cache whatever information
you're going to need for the
next time that you draw the view.
If you do have to do database lookup
during a scroll operation or during
the beginning of an animation,
make sure that you have the
appropriate indices on your database
to make it as performant as possible.
And finally, always reuse your cells and
sometimes even reuse views.
So for UI table view
and UI collection view,
there's really easy API for reusing
those table cells so you don't have
to reconstruct them every time.
Make sure that you're using
the correct identifier so you
can reuse as much as possible.
Keep similar types of
cells grouped together.
But even views.
If you have a view -- two views,
you can use a table view to make sure
that you're using two very similar
looking views that appear at completely
different places of your application.
Can you reuse the view from the other
spot and simply give it a new super view?
[Transcript missing]
If you do have to implement draw
rect and call set needs display,
try to implement a smart draw rect,
that is one that only redraws the
part of the rectangle that has
been passed in as having changed,
and then call set needs display and rect,
so that if you only have a section
of your view that's changed,
you'll only redraw that section.
The core graphics drawing functions
are usually pretty smart about this.
Make sure that your own draw rect
code is also smart about only
redrawing the parts it needs to.
When possible, instead of using DrawRect,
try to use CALayer properties instead.
This gets the work out of your
application and during the DrawRect
part of your application and sends
the work over to the render server
and hopefully even to the GPU,
where it won't take any CPU time at all.
Now, this isn't true for
all CALayer properties.
If you're using CALayer properties
for things like shadows,
which actually sound like
they should be expensive,
that can sometimes be slower
than drawing it yourself,
so you'll want to experiment with this.
But in general,
try to use CALayer properties.
Now, a very simple example.
Suppose we have a case where we
have a view that all is really being
used for is a background color in
which we put subviews on top of it.
So it's just a colored place where we
position different views on top of it.
Well, one way to achieve that
would be to call drawRect,
set red as our fill color,
and then call UIRectFill on our bounds.
Well, there's a couple of
things wrong with this.
One is that this is something
we can achieve perfectly well
with a CA layer property,
as I'll show you in a moment.
The other one is that you
notice in my UIRectFill,
I'm filling the entire bounds of my view,
which I don't really have to do.
I really should only be calling
that on the rect that was passed in.
But a better way overall to do this
is ditch the drawRect entirely and
call setBackgroundColor on the view.
That will in turn set the
background color on the layer,
and we can avoid calling drawRect at all.
There's no backing store to allocate,
and everything should perform better.
Now, there's some exceptions to this,
as we'll see,
but generally this is the pattern
you want to try to follow.
Now let's talk about
being smart with images.
And so I want to start by
talking a little bit about how
images work on our platform.
The way you would usually
display a picture in an iOS
app is using a UI image view,
which of course is backed by a UI image.
What all UI image is actually is a very
lightweight wrapper around CG image.
It's a core graphics data structure
that does most of the heavy
lifting of scaling the image,
blending it, and so forth.
And then the image decoding part is in
a related framework called Image.io.
So UI image does a little bit of work,
but really most of it lives
over there in CG image.
Well, as we know,
all views are backed by CA layers.
So with a UI image view,
what's actually happening is the CG image
is set as the contents of the CA layer.
So both the UI image and the CA layer
are both backed by that CG image.
So when it's time to display this image,
UI image view doesn't have a draw rect.
The layer simply asks the CG image for
the contents that it needs directly.
By the way, a CG image works,
it usually starts its existence
backed by a file or backed by data.
So it might be backed by a ping,
for instance.
It doesn't decode that ping in advance.
It doesn't decode it until it needs to.
So when you create a
CG image or a UI image,
you'll find it's usually very cheap.
But then the first time
you display it on screen,
that's when the bitmap gets decoded.
And that bitmap is then what gets
sent off to the render server.
So one of the consequences of these is
that generally you want to use these
UI image views whenever you want.
It's generally a better strategy than
using the UI image draw at point or
draw in rect methods in your draw rect.
Some of the advantages of this are that,
for instance,
core animation will ask directly
for the bitmap data in exactly
the format that it needs it.
Instead of allocating a separate
backing store and then copying
that bitmap data into it.
It also allows any blending,
if there's blending into other
things that are in the view.
It allows that blending to happen
on the GPU instead of on the CPU.
So that's one of the kind
of things GPUs are good at.
And it also gives you some
extra forms of bitmap caching,
which we'll look at in
more detail in a moment.
[Transcript missing]
The other image format
to consider is JPEG,
and this is a bit of a
change from the past.
We used to say JPEG was slow
on iOS and to avoid using it.
We've made a lot of improvements in
the last few major revisions of iOS,
and now JPEGs are pretty fast.
So this, of course,
gives you great compression, small files.
It's great compression,
especially for very noisy images,
things that don't compress well in ping.
But it does sometimes
have noticeable artifacts,
so we don't recommend
JPEG for UI elements,
for instance.
Stick with pings for those.
It also--JPEGs can't have alpha,
so if you actually need
transparency in your image,
you have to stick with ping for that.
But sometimes you can play a trick,
like using the center of the
image where there is no alpha,
use a JPEG for that,
and then have a border with alpha as a
series of pings or something like that.
Now, of course, those aren't the only two
image formats out there.
There's TIFFs, there's JPEG 2000,
there's things like that.
But our advice for that is very simple.
Don't use anything else.
Ping and JPEG have been
really well optimized for iOS.
We're going to continue
to optimize those.
Really, our focus is not on any
other image formats.
You might think that you have--maybe
you found a raw bitmap-based format that
seems to--you take a time profiler trace,
it seems to be really fast.
Usually, with those other formats,
any win you get in decode time on CPU is
going to be made up for by the extra
time in I/O when we have to actually
pull the less compressed image off disk.
So--and because of the page
cache and a lot of things,
it's really hard for you to
tell when that's happening.
So our advice really is stick with
Ping and JPEG unless you have a really
overwhelming reason to do something else.
Now, of course,
the best image decode of all is
the one that you don't have to do.
So we do have a number of unfortunately
complicated caching strategies for
images on iOS where we'll actually cache
the bitmap so we don't have to decode
it every time you display the image.
And as I say,
this is a little bit complicated,
so bear with me.
But when you're drawing
into a bitmap context,
so when you're using UIImage,
Draw and Rect, or Draw at Point,
it depends on how you made
the image whether we're going
to cache the bitmap or not.
So if you created your image
using UIImage Image Named,
we will cache the image
in purgeable memory,
so it'll stick around until
we're under severe memory
pressure and then we'll evict it.
And we'll also cache it in UIKit's
Image Table in case you call
Image Named on that same image again.
But if you create your image with
UIImage Image with Contents of File and
you draw it into a bitmap context,
we will not cache the bitmap for you.
We'll have to re-decode
it every time you draw it.
So keep that in mind when you're
deciding both how to draw your
images and how to create your images.
All CG images,
no matter how they were created,
cache their bitmaps when they're
set as the contents of a layer.
So if you use UIImageView,
you don't have to worry about
how the CG image was created.
We will always cache the bitmap for you.
Now if you're not using UIKit,
if you're using CG image
functions to create your images,
if you set the case CG image
source should cache flag
when creating the image,
we'll give you the same caching
and purgeable memory behavior.
So generally try to rely on
these bitmap caching strategies.
Don't try to cache the bitmap.
There are various ways you can do that by
drawing into a bitmap context and getting
an image out of the bitmap context.
There are situations
where that's called for,
but generally you want to try to rely
on the built-in image caching strategies
because it will do the right thing
under low memory and things like that.
So here's another very,
very simple example.
Suppose we want to draw an image
scaled to the size of the view
that we're displaying it in.
Well, we could implement a draw
rect and call draw in rect
using the bounds of our view,
and that will scale it appropriately.
But a much better way to do it is simply
set the CG image out of that image
as the contents of the view's layer.
That will give you more bitmap caching.
You don't have to worry about
where the image came from.
In the first example,
we don't know how the image was
created at this point in the code,
so we don't know whether the
bitmap's going to be cached or not.
It will also allow blending
to happen on the GPU.
And this is exactly what happens
if you create your--if you use a
UI image view instead of drawing it.
Okay.
Now I'm going to talk about the
only new feature in iOS 6 that I'm
going to be talking about here,
which is a new flag on a CA layer
called Draws Asynchronously.
And a bunch of people are going to
get very excited when I say this,
but this is not as exciting
as it first sounds.
Draws Asynchronously is hardware
accelerated drawing for your views.
So what we'll actually
do is in your draw rect,
instead of drawing into the
contents immediately on CPU,
Core Graphics will queue up the
drawing commands and have the
GPU fill in the backing store later.
And the GPU can usually
do that very fast,
but this has a high setup cost.
So when we do this,
there's a fixed cost associated with a
view that's going to happen every time.
And there's also a
high fixed memory cost.
So the very first time that you set
Draws Asynchronously on any layer,
there's going to be a memory hit
that you're never going to get back.
That's just going to stick around.
So this is very good if you're
drawing lots and lots of things
into a single large view,
so a view that would
look like a web page,
for instance,
Draws Asynchronously can work very,
very well for you.
If you're doing lots of views and
drawing a little bit into each view,
this will probably
actually make things worse.
So you always want to test your
performance before enabling
Draws Asynchronously and
then test it again afterward.
And turn it off if you don't
see a noticeable improvement.
This is the kind of thing that if
you set it and forget about it,
it might end up biting you later on.
Okay, finally,
if you tried all those other
strategies for speeding up your
layout in your drawing and it's
still not fast enough and your
animation's still not responsive,
the last strategy is
to do speculative work.
And that's where you actually do work
in advance so that it's already ready in
those first two stages of the animation.
So this might mean looking up the data
you need to populate future table views.
It might mean before you flip
over to go to that other view,
you create those views in advance.
You can even do the image decoding on a
background thread so that it's all ready.
But any time you do this,
you're going to end up doing some
work that's going to turn out you
didn't need because you don't know in
advance what your user's going to do.
And caching this stuff is
going to entail a memory hit.
So this is really something
to do only as a last resort.
And it's also not easy to
do safely and performantly.
In fact, it's easy to do this and
make your application worse.
If you think just a little bit about it,
you have to have some
kind of thread-safe cache.
You have to have some kind
of cancellation mechanism.
You have to know--the main thread has to
know when it gets to a bit of a dead end.
And that's what we're going to do.
So this is a little bit of a
summary of what we're going to do.
And this is a little bit of a
When it gets to a bit
of data that it needs,
whether that data is already
being generated in the background
thread or whether it should
generate itself right now.
So there are times where
this can really save you,
but it's also difficult to get right.
So it really ought to be
the last thing that you try.
For my first demo,
I've got a very simple painting
application that it turns out
performs pretty well on older iPads,
but strangely enough, on the newest iPad,
it doesn't perform as well as it used to.
And it's a very simple painting
application that all it does
is it has a page that says,
"I'm going to do this." And it's a very
simple painting application that all
it does is it has a page that says,
"I'm going to do this." And it's
a very simple painting application
that all it does is it has a page
paint view that has a touches began,
touches moved, and touches ended.
It tracks where the user's touches are
going and then it adds to a CG path
with the line from the previous point.
It also allows you to choose a color.
And then in the draw rect,
it draws all the previous paths
that since the -- where the user
drew something and then let go
and then draw something new,
it draws all the previous paths
with their colors and then it draws
the current path with its color.
So, when I run this,
When I run this, okay, I'm painting,
and that's great,
but responsiveness is poor,
to say the least.
At the beginning, everything's fine,
but then after I draw a little bit,
it starts taking a long time
to track what I'm doing.
Okay, so I have no idea why that's
happening to start with.
A good strategy whenever you
have any performance issue you
don't know what else to do about,
it's always a good idea to
start with Time Profiler.
Time Profiler is a good-- I don't
know what else to look at,
and we'll see what this turns up.
We'll see what's going on on CPU.
So I'm gonna run Time Profiler
on my application.
And as I draw,
I see that the CPU time on my main
thread is basically maxing out.
It's basically counting out with
the wall clock time as I draw.
And that's not a good sign.
And I'll blow that up
a little bit for you.
So obviously I seem to have
a CPU bound problem here.
So I'm going to open up my extended
view and go to the main thread.
And this shows me the heaviest call
trace of anything that's going on in what
I have selected over here on the left.
And I see that all of my time is in
my draw rect in my paint view and
specifically in the CG context draw path.
So I'm actually spending all of
my CPU time drawing these paths.
And in particular, the current path.
This is not inside the array enumeration.
This is inside the current path.
Okay.
So my next step is to
try to confirm that.
So I have a hypothesis that
my draws are taking too long.
I'm going to try to confirm that by
actually instrumenting my draw rect.
So I'm taking the absolute
time at the beginning and
the absolute time at the end.
And I'm logging this.
Don't leave this in your shipping code,
please, by the way.
But this is a good way to
instrument and verify my theory.
And I see in the console
view down below that
Okay, so now I have a good theory that
-- and I'll be able to -- because
I've got this profiling in place,
I'll know when I fixed it.
When those times get down much smaller,
it's going to look good.
I still don't really know
why this is happening,
so I'm going to set a breakpoint
in draw rect and just see if
there's anything obvious that's
-- that's going to be there.
Okay, so now I have a good theory that
-- I'll be able to -- because
I've got this profiling in place,
I'll know when I fixed it.
When those times get down much smaller,
it's going to look good.
I still don't really know
why this is happening,
so I'm going to set a breakpoint
in draw rect and just see if
there's anything obvious that's
-- that's going wrong here.
So I set my breakpoint in DrawRect,
and I don't really need it yet.
Draw a little bit.
Set my breakpoint.
and see if there's
anything obviously wrong.
And one thing jumps out to me right away,
and that is that the rect
that's being passed in here
is the size of my entire view.
Now, remember that we have
a scale factor of 2,
so the entire screen
size is only 768 by 1024.
So we're redrawing the entire
rect here on every draw rect.
So that's bad.
So I know that someone must be
calling set needs display on me,
so I'll just do a quick search.
Okay, I'm calling set needs
display in my erase method.
That seems like it's probably right.
And I'm calling set needs display
in my touches moved method.
So that's causing me to mark
the entire rectangle as dirty
and redraw it from scratch.
Now, I've already done the work here
to calculate the dirty rect.
It's very simple.
It's just the previous point to
the current point is my dirty rect.
So let's change this to set needs
display in rect dirty and try it again.
And that is a whole lot better.
That is a whole lot better.
And I'll ask you to take my
word for it that it is actually
behaving much more responsively.
But it's still not great.
You notice that after a
little bit of drawing,
I'm still getting up to 19,
20 milliseconds here,
and that's still too much.
So my next strategy is
I look at my draw rect,
and I notice that I'm redrawing all the
previous paths that the user already
drew in addition to the one that they're
currently in the process of drawing.
That seems wasteful.
It seems like the ones that
have already happened and are
not going to change again.
I shouldn't need to
redraw those every time.
So that's where you have to think
a little creatively and decide what
is it that I could do about that.
And what I decided to do was...
In my view controller,
I created a background view in
addition to the paint view that
I can put in anything that I want.
And it's actually a
UI image view at the moment.
So, what I'm going to do,
when I get the delegate callback from my
paint view saying that the user lifted up
and finished drawing a particular path,
I'm going to merge the paint
view into that background view
so I don't have to draw it again.
And there's no magic to this.
All I'm going to do is create
a new graphics context.
I'm going to draw the
current background view here.
So,
what's already in the background view,
I'm going to draw that into
the current background -- into
the current graphics context.
Then I'm going to draw
the current paint view,
render that into the
current graphics context,
and erase the paint view.
So, now all the paths that are
rendered into my background view,
we're not going to redraw
in the paint view anymore.
And then get the current -- get the
image from the current graphics context,
set that as the background view.
And then I'm going to draw
the current paint view,
render that into the
current graphics context,
and erase the paint view.
So, now all the paths that are
rendered into my background view,
we're not going to redraw
in the paint view anymore.
And then get the current -- get the
image from the current graphics context,
set that as the current graphics context,
set that as the new background view.
So, essentially,
I've taken the existing paths
from my paint view and flattened
them into a background view,
so we only have to draw the
new paths on every draw rect.
So, I've already implemented that code.
All I have to do is turn it on.
And then I'm going
And let's see if our
draw recs are any better.
So, it's not perfect.
There's still some things I could do,
but in two very simple steps,
I actually went from several
hundred milliseconds per draw rec,
sometimes over a second,
to I'm very rarely over
10 milliseconds here.
That might actually be good
enough to stay responsive.
Oh, yay.
Okay,
so we talked about responsive animations.
Now let's take a look at
making animations smooth.
Now, animation smooth, as I said,
means it doesn't stutter,
it doesn't drop any frames.
So what does it take for your
animation to be smooth on iOS?
This is very, very simple.
60 frames per second.
Not 24 frames per second, not 30,
not even 55.
And it occurred to me the other day
working with a developer in a lab,
the way to think about this is,
"So why is 55 so much worse than
60?" 55 frames per second means
that in a one-second animation,
you dropped five frames.
And the user will definitely see that.
So you need to aim for 60 frames per
second if you can possibly reach it.
Anything less than that is
going to be noticeably worse,
even if it's 58, 59.
Doing some very simple math,
that means we have 16 milliseconds,
or 16 two-thirds milliseconds,
per frame to do all the work we need to
do to put that frame onto the screen.
Okay, so going back to our three
stages of the animation,
we're done with the first two stages.
That was in responsiveness,
and now we worry about
rendering each frame.
Now, I said before, rendering each frame,
that happens outside your application,
in the render server and on the GPU,
but there's still a lot you can do
in your application to make this
work as easy as possible for the
render server to complete in time.
So the first thing you need to
do when you have a smoothness
problem is determine whether your
problem is CPU bound or GPU bound.
Now remember we talked
before that CG drawing and
image IO for image decoding,
those things are CPU bound,
but usually those things
have already happened by the
time the animation starts.
Now scrolling, which I'll get to soon,
is an exception to that,
but usually that's already done.
But work in the render server to
actually determine where each layer
needs to be in the next frame,
that takes CPU that's a
cost per layer every frame.
So the more layers you shipped
off to the render server,
the more CPU work it's going
to have to do every frame.
Now the rendering itself,
where we actually composite those layers
together and produce the final display,
that's usually GPU bound.
So the way you figure out
which your application is is
by using instruments again.
And I'll be showing this
in a demo in a moment,
but the first thing you usually want
to do is use the OpenGL ES instrument.
You go to the Configure FlipView,
which I'll take you through,
and there's a little bit of a demo here.
So you can see that it's a device
utilization percentage checkbox.
When you enable that,
it will actually tell you how busy
the GPU is during your animation.
[Transcript missing]
Another core animation instrument
that is sometimes helpful,
another checkbox there,
is off-screen rendering.
And this one I'm going to show you here
because I'm not going to be demoing it.
In the list of checkboxes
there on the bottom left,
there's one that's color
off-screen rendered yellow.
This shows you its colors on the
screen every time we had to go off
into one of those separate off-screen
contexts to create some effect.
Now, this is most often needed either
because you use set should rasterize,
and we had to go off-screen for that,
or if you have any kind
of masking going on.
So if you either used a mask layer or if,
as very commonly,
you use the corner radius
property of your CA layer,
in order to get that corner
radius properly right,
we actually have to go
off-screen to do the masking,
and that requires a context switch.
It also requires some extra
compositing by the GPU.
And so that can slow you down.
But once again,
there's usually ways to avoid this,
but don't go out of your way to
avoid it until you've determined
that you're actually GPU bound.
Thank you.
Okay, the last type of animation I want
to talk about is scrolling,
which is particularly difficult
because it works very differently
from other animations.
So for most animations,
if you have a half-second animation,
so it's going to be 30 frames,
you kick it off at the beginning,
you do all the work ahead of time,
and then it simply renders
each of those 30 frames,
and your application's work is done.
But for scrolling,
we don't work like that.
For scrolling,
we actually do a separate animation
for every single scroll update.
So in one 16-millisecond window,
we have to calculate
the new scroll position,
prepare and commit the animation,
so all the stuff that I talked
about in responsiveness,
and render the frame,
so all the stuff I talked
about in smoothness,
all has to happen in 16 milliseconds.
And that's a pretty tall order.
In particular, for table view scrolling,
the table view cells that
are already on screen,
of course, we're not going to
redraw those every time.
We're only going to redraw
them the first time.
But the first time a new table
view cell appears on screen,
we have to lay out and draw
that table cell from scratch,
and we've only got 16
milliseconds to do that,
and that's assuming that the user
is scrolling relatively slowly.
If they're scrolling quickly,
two table cells or three
or the entire screen might
appear all in the same frame.
So your goal for this is not
to get the layout and drawing
down to 16 milliseconds.
Your goal is to get it down
just as low as you possibly can,
so that you'll maintain a
smooth scrolling experience,
even if the user scrolls very,
very quickly.
So the strategies for scrolling are
some of the same strategies we talked
about in responsiveness and smoothness.
Reuse your cells and views
always whenever you can.
Minimize your layout and drawing
time using the same strategies we
talked about in responsiveness.
Consider doing speculative work.
So when row 47 comes up on screen,
should you be kicking off a
background thread to get rows 48,
49, 50 ready?
That's something you'll have to decide
depending on your own circumstances.
And look at flattening your view
hierarchy if you're GPU bound.
But this, more than any other,
is a test and iterate case.
If you start out GPU bound
and you flatten a little bit,
you might get to where
you're not GPU bound anymore.
Great.
If you flatten a little bit more,
you might become CPU bound from
doing all those draw racks.
So sometimes you want to reduce, say,
from 100 layers down to 50,
but if you go less than 50,
it's going to actually make it worse.
So you need to find what the right
place for your particular scenario is.
Okay.
And that brings us to our second demo,
which is the WWF.
And that's the WWC app.
If you saw the responsiveness talk,
you saw a performance problem
fixed -- one particular performance
problem in the WWC app fixed.
Now we're going to look at another one.
We didn't have mirroring
on the original iPad.
Okay.
So when I scroll on an original
iPad in the schedule view,
it's pretty choppy.
It's not terrible, and you can't see just
how bad it is up there,
unfortunately, but it is not great.
We're clearly not getting
60 frames per second.
So I'm going to start this investigation,
again, by profiling,
but this time I'm going to use
the Core Animation Instrument
to get a baseline for what my
scrolling performance is right now.
So I'm going to pull up in the graphics.
I'm going to use the
Core Animation Instrument.
I'm going to scroll and watch my
core animation frames per second.
And for this,
remember that you want to keep
it moving continuously because
the screen's not going to update
unless it actually needs to.
So as I scroll around here,
I see that I'm getting in the
mid-30s for my frames per second,
which is not very good.
So I'm going to then try,
since I've already got the
core animation instrument open,
I'm going to switch over so
you can see what I'm doing.
I'm going to check the color
blended layers checkbox.
So this is going to,
as I showed you before,
it's going to color the opaque parts
green and the blended parts red.
And when it comes up here,
I immediately see there's quite
a lot of blending in this view.
The top and bottom are
almost completely blended,
some of it's very deeply blended,
and I've got a lot of blending in
the actual grid cells themselves.
And so,
and this is actually the debugging
process we went through here,
I think, okay,
I've got too much blending,
I'm going to try to reduce that.
And the easiest way to do that,
if I go to my grid view where
I'm actually creating the thing,
here I'm creating the labels,
adding them as subviews,
I've also got a couple
of images in there.
I'm going to try just to see if it helps.
I'm going to do self layer
should rasterize equals yes.
So that's going to set should rasterize,
as I talked about before.
And so I'm going to run that.
Actually, I'm going to profile that.
I'll do that from over there.
Okay.
So I'm going to run that.
[Transcript missing]
I see this.
So my grid cells that are
already on the screen are green.
When new ones come on screen,
they're red, which is expected,
because I have to cache at one time.
And then they're green after that.
So my cache is working.
But if I --
Uncheck that, attach to all processes,
and record again to see
what my frame rate is.
My frame rate is not actually any
better as I'm scrolling around.
Eh, maybe a little bit better,
which is unexpected.
But for the most part...
The most part, if I scroll very quickly,
this has not actually helped,
which makes me wonder,
my cache is working.
Why am I still only getting in
the 30s for my frames per second?
Well, the answer is that I didn't do what
I said I should do and start by looking
at the device utilization percentage.
I'm running low on time,
so I'm not going to actually do that,
but the device utilization percentage,
if I run this,
tells me I'm actually only in
the 20s for my utilization.
So that makes me wonder, okay,
if I'm not GPU bound,
what actually happens?
And that's actually my problem.
Fortunately, when you run the core
animation instrument,
you also get the time profiler
instrument along with it.
So I'm going to bring that up,
and we see something very surprising.
Most of my CPU time is not in
my application as I'm scrolling.
Most of the CPU time is in Springboard,
which is the process where
the render server lives.
That gives me a new theory
that I have too many layers.
So I'm
by going to a place where I know
that all my layers are going to be in
place and using a little trick that
a lot of developers don't know about.
So I'm going to my view
controller's scroll view did
scroll method where I know that
all the layers are actually there.
And I'm going to set a break point there.
And then I'm going to scroll.
So I break.
And I'm going to use a special
method called recursive description.
Let's clear the contents here
because this is a lot of data.
So I'm going to print out
I'm going to print out
self.view recursive description.
And this is actually going to
recursively go through all the
views and show all the subviews.
And I get an absolute mountain of text.
If I put that into a text
editor where I get line numbers,
there are about 700
layers in this display,
which is a lot.
So that tells me, yes,
I probably have too many layers.
What I do then to test this theory
and make sure that the number
of layers is actually a problem,
I'm going to do something very,
very strange here.
I'm going to remove the
set should rasterize,
which I know didn't help.
I'm still going to do all the work to
create those subviews because I don't
want to disturb this more than I have to.
But I'm simply going to go and
remove all the add subviews.
So I'm still going to do all
the work to create these things.
I'm not reducing the amount of
drawing because I don't draw
them every single time anyway.
I'm just going to display the background,
make sure that I still get --
I get 60 fips in this scenario,
and then I'll know that the number
of layers was actually the problem.
So basically the process
that I went through here is
I removed all the subviews,
I verified that in fact I get 60
fips without the views being there,
the subviews being there.
And then I decided, well,
let's test out what happens if I actually
draw these instead of using subviews.
So I implemented a draw rect
that is not shippable code,
and that's okay at this
stage of prototyping it,
where I simply take those subtitles and,
you know, the title, the subtitle,
all those subviews that I created.
I have them draw themselves
in my draw rect instead of
setting them up as subviews.
So now the same drawing
is going to occur,
but the render server doesn't
have to process so many layers.
And when I did this and ran it
in the OpenGL instrument again,
now I get 60 fips and my
content actually looks right.
Now I'm creating a lot of views
that I'm not actually using.
I'm also calling drawTextInRect,
which is documented but says
don't call this directly.
So I'm not going to ship this code.
But for a prototype,
this works perfectly well and
demonstrates that the number of
layers actually was the problem.
So, a couple of final thoughts.
Test animations on a
wide range of devices.
It's not just a matter
of raw performance.
It's a matter of the particular
capabilities of the device in question.
Some devices are more
likely to be CPU-bound,
some GPU-bound.
Different scenarios call
for different solutions.
Measure, test, and iterate.
Okay, for more information,
talk to Michael Jurowicz,
the evangelist for performance.
Visit the developer forums.
We talked about animations,
responsive animations, smooth animations,
and I think I'm over time.
So thank you very much.